AI_SETUP_GUIDE.md, before:

# GymAI Assistant - Setup Guide

## ✅ Completed

1. ✅ AI dependencies installed (`ai`, `@ai-sdk/openai`, `@ai-sdk/vue`, `openai`)
2. ✅ Database migrations created
3. ✅ Edge Function `gym-ai-assistant` deployed to Supabase
4. ✅ Frontend components created:
   - `ScheduleQueryDialog.vue` - Student schedule questions
   - `SmartReplyChips.vue` - AI-suggested replies
   - `MessageTriageView.vue` - Owner message triage
5. ✅ Composable `useGymAI.ts` created
6. ✅ Components integrated into ChatViewPage and MainLayout
7. ✅ Code committed to `feat/gym-ai-assistant` branch

## 🔧 Manual Setup Required

### 1. Apply Database Migrations

Go to **Supabase Dashboard → SQL Editor** and run these migrations:

#### Migration 1: AI Foundation
```sql
-- Copy and paste the entire contents of:
-- messageAI-Quasar/supabase/migrations/20251024000000_add_ai_foundation.sql
```

**Note**: This enables the `pgvector` extension. If it's not available on your Supabase project tier, you may need to upgrade or use a workaround.

#### Migration 2: Seed Gym Data
```sql
-- Copy and paste the entire contents of:
-- messageAI-Quasar/supabase/migrations/20251024010000_seed_gym_data.sql
```

This will populate:
- 15 gym class schedules (North & South locations)
- 5 quick reply templates for common questions

### 2. Set OpenAI API Key

```bash
cd messageAI-Quasar
supabase secrets set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here
```

Get your API key from: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys

### 3. Test the Implementation

#### Test Student Features:
1. Navigate to any chat
2. Click the **AI robot icon** (🤖) in the toolbar
3. Ask: "When is no-gi at South gym?"
4. Should receive instant AI-generated answer

5. Send a message from another user
6. You should see **Smart Reply Chips** above the input
7. Tap a suggestion to use it

#### Test Owner Features:
1. Click the **Dashboard icon** in the main toolbar
2. Opens the **Triage Inbox**
3. Messages should be categorized:
   - 🔴 Urgent
   - 📅 Schedule Questions (with AI answers)
   - 💰 Billing
   - 🏋️ Private Lessons
   - 💬 General

4. For schedule questions, tap **"Send"** to use AI-suggested reply

## 🎯 What's Working

### Technical Requirements Coverage:

1. **✅ RAG Pipeline**: 
   - `embeddings` table with pgvector
   - `search_embeddings()` function for semantic search
   - Gym schedules stored and queryable

2. **✅ Function Calling**:
   - `query_schedule` - Natural language schedule queries
   - `categorize_message` - Auto-categorize messages
   - `generate_reply` - Generate smart reply options
   - `search_semantic` - Semantic search across content

3. **✅ User Preferences**:
   - `gym_schedules` table (15 schedules)
   - `quick_replies` table (5 templates)
   - Extensible for instructor preferences, member profiles

4. **✅ Memory/State**:
   - `ai_conversations` table tracks conversation context
   - Message `category` field persisted
   - `ai_processed` flag tracks AI-handled messages

5. **✅ Error Handling**:
   - Try/catch in all Edge Function handlers
   - Graceful fallbacks in composables
   - User-facing error messages
   - Loading states in UI

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Phase 2: Enhanced Features (Optional)

1. **Auto-Categorization on Message Insert**
   - Add database trigger or webhook
   - Auto-categorize new messages
   - Update triage view in real-time

2. **Embedding Generation**
   - Background job to create embeddings
   - For messages, schedules, policies
   - Enable semantic search

3. **Role-Based Access**
   - Add `role` field to profiles
   - Show triage dashboard only to owners/admins
   - Students see schedule AI only

4. **Advanced Triage Actions**
   - Delegate to staff members
   - Snooze/archive messages
   - Auto-respond to FAQs

## 📊 Demo Preparation

### Demo Flow (5-7 minutes):

**Act 1: The Problem** (1 min)
- Show owner's phone: 10+ group chats, scrolling
- Student confused: "When is class?"
- Important message buried

**Act 2: Student Experience** (2 min)
- Student opens chat
- Taps AI button: "When is no-gi at South?"
- **Instant answer**: "Friday 7:30-9pm at South gym"
- Another student asks a question
- **Smart replies appear**: Tap to send
- Done in 5 seconds

**Act 3: Owner Experience** (2 min)
- Owner opens app, sees chaos
- Taps **Triage Dashboard**
- **Urgent** section: Injury alert (red)
- **Schedule Questions**: 5 messages, all with AI answers
- Tap **"Send"** → Reply sent automatically
- **Private Lesson**: Forward to instructor
- Owner focused on what matters

**Act 4: The Impact** (1 min)
- Before: 1 hour responding to messages
- After: 10 minutes, focused on emergencies
- Students: Instant answers 24/7
- Owner: No more bottleneck

### Screen Recording Tips:
- Use 2 devices or split screen simulator
- Clear audio narration
- Zoom in on key UI elements
- Show before/after metrics

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### "Function not found" error
- Ensure Edge Function deployed: `supabase functions deploy gym-ai-assistant`
- Check function logs: `supabase functions logs gym-ai-assistant`

### "pgvector extension not available"
- Upgrade Supabase project tier (Pro or Enterprise)
- Or use alternative: PostgreSQL text search instead

### AI responses are slow
- Check OpenAI API status
- Consider caching common queries
- Use `gpt-3.5-turbo` instead of `gpt-4` for speed

### Smart replies not showing
- Check browser console for errors
- Ensure Edge Function returns `{ replies: [...] }` format
- Verify message has content

## 📝 Files Modified

**New Files:**
- `supabase/migrations/20251024000000_add_ai_foundation.sql`
- `supabase/migrations/20251024010000_seed_gym_data.sql`
- `supabase/functions/gym-ai-assistant/index.ts`
- `supabase/functions/gym-ai-assistant/deno.json`
- `src/composables/useGymAI.ts`
- `src/components/ScheduleQueryDialog.vue`
- `src/components/SmartReplyChips.vue`
- `src/components/MessageTriageView.vue`

**Modified Files:**
- `messageAI-Quasar/package.json` (added AI dependencies)
- `src/pages/ChatViewPage.vue` (added AI button, smart replies)
- `src/layouts/MainLayout.vue` (added triage dashboard)

## 🎓 Resources

- **OpenAI Docs**: https://platform.openai.com/docs
- **Supabase Edge Functions**: https://supabase.com/docs/guides/functions
- **pgvector**: https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector
- **Vercel AI SDK**: https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs

## ✨ Success Criteria

- ✅ Students can ask schedule questions in natural language
- ✅ AI answers are accurate and conversational
- ✅ Smart reply suggestions appear for incoming messages
- ✅ Owner can see categorized message triage
- ✅ One-tap sending of AI-suggested replies
- ✅ All 5 technical requirements demonstrated
- ✅ No crashes or UI glitches
- ✅ Demo video shows clear before/after impact

Commit message:

docs: update setup guide with critical RLS fix and troubleshooting
- Add RLS recursion fix as first migration step (critical)
- Emphasize importance of running migrations in order
- Add comprehensive troubleshooting section for infinite recursion error
- Include symptoms and exact solution steps

AI_SETUP_GUIDE.md, after:

# GymAI Assistant - Setup Guide

## ✅ Completed

1. ✅ AI dependencies installed (`ai`, `@ai-sdk/openai`, `@ai-sdk/vue`, `openai`)
2. ✅ Database migrations created
3. ✅ Edge Function `gym-ai-assistant` deployed to Supabase
4. ✅ Frontend components created:
   - `ScheduleQueryDialog.vue` - Student schedule questions
   - `SmartReplyChips.vue` - AI-suggested replies
   - `MessageTriageView.vue` - Owner message triage
5. ✅ Composable `useGymAI.ts` created
6. ✅ Components integrated into ChatViewPage and MainLayout
7. ✅ Code committed to `feat/gym-ai-assistant` branch

## 🔧 Manual Setup Required

### 1. Apply Database Migrations

Go to **Supabase Dashboard → SQL Editor** and run these migrations **in order**:

#### Migration 1: Fix Chat Members RLS (CRITICAL!)
```sql
-- Copy and paste the entire contents of:
-- messageAI-Quasar/supabase/migrations/20251024020000_fix_chat_members_rls_recursion.sql
```

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: Run this first! It fixes infinite recursion errors that prevent chat list loading.

#### Migration 2: AI Foundation
```sql
-- Copy and paste the entire contents of:
-- messageAI-Quasar/supabase/migrations/20251024000000_add_ai_foundation.sql
```

**Note**: This enables the `pgvector` extension. If it's not available on your Supabase project tier, you may need to upgrade or use a workaround.

#### Migration 3: Seed Gym Data
```sql
-- Copy and paste the entire contents of:
-- messageAI-Quasar/supabase/migrations/20251024010000_seed_gym_data.sql
```

This will populate:
- 15 gym class schedules (North & South locations)
- 5 quick reply templates for common questions

### 2. Set OpenAI API Key

```bash
cd messageAI-Quasar
supabase secrets set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here
```

Get your API key from: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys

### 3. Test the Implementation

#### Test Student Features:
1. Navigate to any chat
2. Click the **AI robot icon** (🤖) in the toolbar
3. Ask: "When is no-gi at South gym?"
4. Should receive instant AI-generated answer

5. Send a message from another user
6. You should see **Smart Reply Chips** above the input
7. Tap a suggestion to use it

#### Test Owner Features:
1. Click the **Dashboard icon** in the main toolbar
2. Opens the **Triage Inbox**
3. Messages should be categorized:
   - 🔴 Urgent
   - 📅 Schedule Questions (with AI answers)
   - 💰 Billing
   - 🏋️ Private Lessons
   - 💬 General

4. For schedule questions, tap **"Send"** to use AI-suggested reply

## 🎯 What's Working

### Technical Requirements Coverage:

1. **✅ RAG Pipeline**: 
   - `embeddings` table with pgvector
   - `search_embeddings()` function for semantic search
   - Gym schedules stored and queryable

2. **✅ Function Calling**:
   - `query_schedule` - Natural language schedule queries
   - `categorize_message` - Auto-categorize messages
   - `generate_reply` - Generate smart reply options
   - `search_semantic` - Semantic search across content

3. **✅ User Preferences**:
   - `gym_schedules` table (15 schedules)
   - `quick_replies` table (5 templates)
   - Extensible for instructor preferences, member profiles

4. **✅ Memory/State**:
   - `ai_conversations` table tracks conversation context
   - Message `category` field persisted
   - `ai_processed` flag tracks AI-handled messages

5. **✅ Error Handling**:
   - Try/catch in all Edge Function handlers
   - Graceful fallbacks in composables
   - User-facing error messages
   - Loading states in UI

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Phase 2: Enhanced Features (Optional)

1. **Auto-Categorization on Message Insert**
   - Add database trigger or webhook
   - Auto-categorize new messages
   - Update triage view in real-time

2. **Embedding Generation**
   - Background job to create embeddings
   - For messages, schedules, policies
   - Enable semantic search

3. **Role-Based Access**
   - Add `role` field to profiles
   - Show triage dashboard only to owners/admins
   - Students see schedule AI only

4. **Advanced Triage Actions**
   - Delegate to staff members
   - Snooze/archive messages
   - Auto-respond to FAQs

## 📊 Demo Preparation

### Demo Flow (5-7 minutes):

**Act 1: The Problem** (1 min)
- Show owner's phone: 10+ group chats, scrolling
- Student confused: "When is class?"
- Important message buried

**Act 2: Student Experience** (2 min)
- Student opens chat
- Taps AI button: "When is no-gi at South?"
- **Instant answer**: "Friday 7:30-9pm at South gym"
- Another student asks a question
- **Smart replies appear**: Tap to send
- Done in 5 seconds

**Act 3: Owner Experience** (2 min)
- Owner opens app, sees chaos
- Taps **Triage Dashboard**
- **Urgent** section: Injury alert (red)
- **Schedule Questions**: 5 messages, all with AI answers
- Tap **"Send"** → Reply sent automatically
- **Private Lesson**: Forward to instructor
- Owner focused on what matters

**Act 4: The Impact** (1 min)
- Before: 1 hour responding to messages
- After: 10 minutes, focused on emergencies
- Students: Instant answers 24/7
- Owner: No more bottleneck

### Screen Recording Tips:
- Use 2 devices or split screen simulator
- Clear audio narration
- Zoom in on key UI elements
- Show before/after metrics

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### "Infinite recursion detected in policy for relation chat_members"
**This is the most critical error!**
- **Cause**: RLS policies reference `chat_members` within `chat_members` policies
- **Solution**: Apply migration `20251024020000_fix_chat_members_rls_recursion.sql` FIRST
- **Symptoms**: Chat list won't load, 500 errors in console
- Go to Supabase Dashboard → SQL Editor and run the fix migration

### "Function not found" error
- Ensure Edge Function deployed: `supabase functions deploy gym-ai-assistant`
- Check function logs: `supabase functions logs gym-ai-assistant`

### "pgvector extension not available"
- Upgrade Supabase project tier (Pro or Enterprise)
- Or use alternative: PostgreSQL text search instead

### AI responses are slow
- Check OpenAI API status
- Consider caching common queries
- Use `gpt-3.5-turbo` instead of `gpt-4` for speed

### Smart replies not showing
- Check browser console for errors
- Ensure Edge Function returns `{ replies: [...] }` format
- Verify message has content

### Chat list loads but messages don't
- Check RLS policies on `messages` table
- Verify `chat_members` policies are correctly applied
- Check browser console for specific error codes

## 📝 Files Modified

**New Files:**
- `supabase/migrations/20251024000000_add_ai_foundation.sql`
- `supabase/migrations/20251024010000_seed_gym_data.sql`
- `supabase/functions/gym-ai-assistant/index.ts`
- `supabase/functions/gym-ai-assistant/deno.json`
- `src/composables/useGymAI.ts`
- `src/components/ScheduleQueryDialog.vue`
- `src/components/SmartReplyChips.vue`
- `src/components/MessageTriageView.vue`

**Modified Files:**
- `messageAI-Quasar/package.json` (added AI dependencies)
- `src/pages/ChatViewPage.vue` (added AI button, smart replies)
- `src/layouts/MainLayout.vue` (added triage dashboard)

## 🎓 Resources

- **OpenAI Docs**: https://platform.openai.com/docs
- **Supabase Edge Functions**: https://supabase.com/docs/guides/functions
- **pgvector**: https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector
- **Vercel AI SDK**: https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs

## ✨ Success Criteria

- ✅ Students can ask schedule questions in natural language
- ✅ AI answers are accurate and conversational
- ✅ Smart reply suggestions appear for incoming messages
- ✅ Owner can see categorized message triage
- ✅ One-tap sending of AI-suggested replies
- ✅ All 5 technical requirements demonstrated
- ✅ No crashes or UI glitches
- ✅ Demo video shows clear before/after impact
